README.md, before:

# Eth-Runner

Runs ethminer with all available Nvidia and AMD GPUs. This was tested on a system using Ubuntu 16.04LTS, containing the following specs:
- ASUS B250 Mining Expert
- 8 x GTX 1070 / 8GB GPUs
- 4 x AMD RX580 / 8GB GPUs.
- 32GB RAM
- 1TB Samsung SSD (for fast read/write)

Note: AMD GPUs were recorded as opencl-platform with value `0`. It could be different for your system. So check by running `ethminer --list-devices` and look for the platform-id in the output for AMD (Ellesmere), usually it is 0.

## Features:
- For Nvidia cards, tunes them by undervolting GPU and increasing memory frequency, increasing mining to 30MH/s+ for Eth
- For AMD cards, the BIOS need to be flashed using [Polaris Bios Editor](https://github.com/jaschaknack/PolarisBiosEditor).

## Prerequisites:
- Create a `.account` file that contains the Ethereum account alphanumeric string and nickname, like this: `<account-address>.<nickname>` and put it in the root folder of this project.
- nvidia-smi (comes with Nvidia drivers)
- nvidia-xconfig (comes with Nvidia drivers)
- Install [ethminer](https://github.com/ethereum-mining/ethminer). Make sure `ethminer --list-devices` recognizes all your GPUs and lists them. Pay attention to the platform-IDs for AMD cards as that's required in the `amd/run_amd.sh` script.

## Usage:
- Clone the repo.
- Edit `init.sh` and add the location for Ethminer in `ETHMINER_PATH`, eg: `/home/foobar/.ethminer/bin`
- Set the tune parameters for Nvidia tuning in `nvidia/tune_nvidia.sh`. The default values should fetch 30MH/s on Nvidia 1070 GTX 8GB, but feel free to tweak that even further with higher `MEM_OVERCLOCK` values and higher `POWER` values.
- No AMD tuning is provided here, you have to use [Polaris Bios Editor](https://github.com/jaschaknack/PolarisBiosEditor) to flash the ROM and get your optimal hashrate. A list of available pre-tested ROMS for MSI RX580 8GB cards are provided in `rom/` for use, *but use it at your own risk as not every GPU is the same*.
- Edit `amd/run_amd.sh` and set the platform-ID for AMD cards fetched using `ethminer --list-devices`
- Start mining by runing `sudo start.sh`, which will first enable and tune your Nvidia cards and then will run ethminer on all available Nvidia and AMD GPUs.

## Crontab
The `start.sh`, `stop.sh` and `switchoff_until.sh` scripts can be used with crontab as shown below:
```
# m h  dom mon dow   command

# Start miners and watchdog
@reboot sudo /path/to/eth-runner/start.sh > /path/to/eth-runner/logs/start.log 2>&1

# Shutdown at 7am everyday
00 07 * * * sudo /path/to/eth-runner/stop.sh
02 07 * * * sudo /path/to/eth-runner/shutdown.sh
```

## Metrics

A prepackaged Grafana + InfluxDB + StatsD Docker container is used help store and display eth-runner metrics. The `start*` scripts in the `metrics/` directory collect the metrics via the underlying drivers such as `nvidia-smi` and `lm-sensors` (PySensors). For more details on Metrics, check the Readme [here](metrics/README.md).

A Snapshot of the sample Grafana dashboard looks like below:

![Grafana Miner Stats](/img/grafana_metrics.png)

Commit message:

Modified to make metrics collection separate from running the metrics server on the same box. So start.sh --metrics will only start the metrics collection, no metrics-server. The metrics server will need to be spun up separately in a different machine (to lighten the load), facilated by the eth-runner-metrics project.

README.md, after:

# Eth-Runner

Runs ethminer with all available Nvidia and AMD GPUs. This was tested on a system using Ubuntu 16.04LTS, containing the following specs:
- ASUS B250 Mining Expert
- 8 x GTX 1070 / 8GB GPUs
- 4 x AMD RX580 / 8GB GPUs.
- 32GB RAM
- 1TB Samsung SSD (for fast read/write)

Note: AMD GPUs were recorded as opencl-platform with value `0`. It could be different for your system. So check by running `ethminer --list-devices` and look for the platform-id in the output for AMD (Ellesmere), usually it is 0.

## Features:
- For Nvidia cards, tunes them by undervolting GPU and increasing memory frequency, increasing mining to 30MH/s+ for Eth
- For AMD cards, the BIOS need to be flashed using [Polaris Bios Editor](https://github.com/jaschaknack/PolarisBiosEditor).

## Prerequisites:
- Create a `.account` file that contains the Ethereum account alphanumeric string and nickname, like this: `<account-address>.<nickname>` and put it in the root folder of this project.
- nvidia-smi (comes with Nvidia drivers)
- nvidia-xconfig (comes with Nvidia drivers)
- Install [ethminer](https://github.com/ethereum-mining/ethminer). Make sure `ethminer --list-devices` recognizes all your GPUs and lists them. Pay attention to the platform-IDs for AMD cards as that's required in the `amd/run_amd.sh` script.

## Quickstart
To just start the miners, without any monitoring:
```
$ ./start.sh
```
To start the miners with monitoring, do the following:
```
$ ./start.sh --metrics
```
Disclaimer: For default data-polling period (5 seconds), not recommended for leaving on long-term, like overnight. It can be taxing on the GPUs, but helpful for debugging/monitoring. If required for long-term, better to dial down the pings to periods of 3-5 seconds, or even 1 minute. More about metrics below.

## Usage:
- Clone the repo.
- Edit `init.sh` and add the location for Ethminer in `ETHMINER_PATH`, eg: `/home/foobar/.ethminer/bin`
- Set the tune parameters for Nvidia tuning in `nvidia/tune_nvidia.sh`. The default values should fetch 30MH/s on Nvidia 1070 GTX 8GB, but feel free to tweak that even further with higher `MEM_OVERCLOCK` values and higher `POWER` values.
- No AMD tuning is provided here, you have to use [Polaris Bios Editor](https://github.com/jaschaknack/PolarisBiosEditor) to flash the ROM and get your optimal hashrate. A list of available pre-tested ROMS for MSI RX580 8GB cards are provided in `rom/` for use, *but use it at your own risk as not every GPU is the same*.
- Edit `amd/run_amd.sh` and set the platform-ID for AMD cards fetched using `ethminer --list-devices`
- Start mining by runing `sudo start.sh`, which will first enable and tune your Nvidia cards and then will run ethminer on all available Nvidia and AMD GPUs.

## Crontab
The `start.sh`, `stop.sh` and `switchoff_until.sh` scripts can be used with crontab as shown below:
```
# m h  dom mon dow   command

# Start miners and watchdog
@reboot sudo /path/to/eth-runner/start.sh > /path/to/eth-runner/logs/start.log 2>&1

# Shutdown at 7am everyday
00 07 * * * sudo /path/to/eth-runner/stop.sh
02 07 * * * sudo /path/to/eth-runner/shutdown.sh
```

## Metrics

A prepackaged Grafana + InfluxDB + StatsD Docker container is used help store and display eth-runner metrics. The `start*` scripts in the `metrics/` directory collect the metrics via the underlying drivers such as `nvidia-smi` and `lm-sensors` (PySensors). For more details on Metrics, check the Readme [here](metrics/README.md).

A Snapshot of the sample Grafana dashboard looks like below:

![Grafana Miner Stats](/img/grafana_metrics.png)
